Submit number:  0
submitterName: Gloria Meece
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-56283
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  1
submitterName: Norma Riley
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-56284
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  2
submitterName: Kathy Weber
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-34138
commentText: I oppose the gag rule because it would be harmful and prevent health care access to majority low-income people Women's bodies and women's health should be protected.


Submit number:  3
submitterName: Chris Moore
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-56285
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  4
submitterName: Kristin Gillies
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-8449
commentText: 1


Submit number:  5
submitterName: Anna Grandinetti
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-56286
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  6
submitterName: Mary Ellen Johnson
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-34139
commentText: Regarding the proposed changes to Title X

I urge the Department of Health and Human Services to maintain Title X as it is currently operating.  This program provides access to needed services, including preventive reproductive healthcare, cancer screenings, STI testing and treatment and well-woman exams for millions of low-income, under- and uninsured women and men. Proposed changes to the program could deny care to these individuals.

Do not restrict health care providers ability to discuss all of the family planning options available to those seeking reproductive health care.  The open and frank discussion of all options allows individuals to have the information they need to make the decisions that are right for them and their families. To deny people this information is unethical and I believe immoral.

These changes are also an attempt to block patients from seeking care at Planned Parenthood clinics. More than 40 percent of Title X patients access affordable birth control and reproductive care from Planned Parenthood.  The proposed changes would leave many of these patients without care because often Planned Parenthood is the only clinic in some rural areas and many of the other clinics do not have the capacity or ability to provide this care.  Planned Parenthood was founded to help women with birth control services to reduce unintended pregnancies.  If Planned Parenthood is forced to close clinics the number of unwanted pregnancies will increase, and so will the number of abortions!

Mary Ellen Johnson



Submit number:  7
submitterName: Mary Kay Mahowald
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-56305
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  8
submitterName: Guy Quesenberry
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-17285
commentText: The proposed rule is harmful to the health and basic rights of women, and I urge you to withdraw it. This rule would require family-planning providers to conceal legal reproductive options available to women, making it more difficult for millions of Title X patients to get proper preventive care. Moreover, the proposed rule contradicts existing law that ensures patients have a right to full and accurate information about their health care.

This ill-considered rule would also increase the number of patients who receive health care under Title X without providing any additional financing to help the program or providers meet this expanded need. This would place a significant strain on Title X providers.

Most importantly, implementation of this rule will hurt women and their families, denying rights to birth control, cancer screenings, abortion referrals, STD testing and treatment, or even general womens health exams. Major medical associations, like the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ACOG) and the American College of Physicians (ACP), oppose this policy because it moves away from science-based principles and erodes standards of care. Patients have a right to know what their health care options are, and the information they receive should not be influenced by a third partys moral or religious convictions.

As a taxpayer and a healthcare consumer, I strongly oppose to the proposed rule, and I ask you to withdraw it immediately.


Submit number:  9
submitterName: Billy Hall
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-61511
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  10
submitterName: April Luptak
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-57686
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  11
submitterName: Anita Haskins
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-56290
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  12
submitterName: Darrell Neft
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-34176
commentText: As a concerned citizen and a Reform Jew, I write to express in the strongest terms my opposition to proposed rule RIN 0937-ZA00. By barring organizations that provide abortions or abortion referrals from receiving federal family planning funds, this rule would erode womens reproductive rights, undermine free speech, and restrict womens access to quality health care.  

The proposed rule would eliminate the guarantee that doctors provide their patients full and accurate information. Jewish tradition teaches that a doctor is obligated to heal, and a person who prevents a physician from doing so is considered to have shed blood (Shulchan Arukh Yore Deah 336:1). Restricting the information doctors can give their patients prevents physicians from healing to the best of their abilities. This is a sin that violates the sacred doctor-patient relationship. 

This rule would also take away non-abortion reproductive health care from the millions of women who rely on Planned Parenthood and other service providers that also perform or refer for abortion. As Jews, we believe that health care is not only the right of every individual, but the responsibility of the entire community. By refusing to fund providers that serve half of the people who receive Title X funded care, this rule would prevent millions of mostly low-income women from accessing medically necessary health care services.  

 I urge you to withdraw this proposed rule and allow women to receive all the health care and information they want and need.  


Submit number:  13
submitterName: Susann Smaglinski
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-9659
commentText: We agree with President Trump, Title funds should not be funding Planned Parenthood and abortion. Abortion is murdering live human babies and never should be happening in American, the land of the free!!!!! NOT free for human babies for sure!!! Far too many Americans have died under the excuse of abortion, let us stop it now!!!

Susann & Bernard Smaglinski
Harbor Beach, MI


Submit number:  14
submitterName: Eric May
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-56306
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  15
submitterName: Lana Davis
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-8446
commentText: 1


Submit number:  16
submitterName: Jeremy Dub
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-17288
commentText: The proposed rule is harmful to the health and basic rights of women, and I urge you to withdraw it. This rule would require family-planning providers to conceal legal reproductive options available to women, making it more difficult for millions of Title X patients to get proper preventive care. Moreover, the proposed rule contradicts existing law that ensures patients have a right to full and accurate information about their health care.

This ill-considered rule would also increase the number of patients who receive health care under Title X without providing any additional financing to help the program or providers meet this expanded need. This would place a significant strain on Title X providers.

Most importantly, implementation of this rule will hurt women and their families, denying rights to birth control, cancer screenings, abortion referrals, STD testing and treatment, or even general womens health exams. Major medical associations, like the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ACOG) and the American College of Physicians (ACP), oppose this policy because it moves away from science-based principles and erodes standards of care. Patients have a right to know what their health care options are, and the information they receive should not be influenced by a third partys moral or religious convictions.

As a taxpayer and a healthcare consumer, I strongly oppose to the proposed rule, and I ask you to withdraw it immediately.


Submit number:  17
submitterName: Aaron Thurber
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-61515
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  18
submitterName: Peter Pilant
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-57687
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and murder is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  19
submitterName: Sherry Hearn
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-56291
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  20
submitterName: Eleanore Kruger
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-44127
commentText: As someone who objects to my tax dollars subsidizing the abortion industry, I express loud support for the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. This rule is necessary to ensure that taxpayer dollars are no longer entangled in the abortion industry. The President Clinton regulations allowed the Title X family planning program to become a slush fund for abortion organizations. Pro-life organizations have been shut out of the program because they are unwilling to violate their conscience by applying for funds for a program that requires them to refer for abortion. The Clinton regulations must be changed, and I support the regulation removing the abortion referral requirement and replacing it with a restriction on abortion referrals.

Abortion is not family planning. When Congress first authorized the Title X program, and it made clear that abortion should be separate from the family planning program. Title X funds should be completely physically and financially separate from all abortion-related activities, and Title X recipients should no longer be forced to provide abortion referrals or risk defunding.

I also support the proposed rule requirement that Title X clinics abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse in order to put a stop to the exploiting of young women and girls, many of whom are brought to Title X clinics for contraception and abortion by their abusers. The proposed rule would ensure that these girls will be protected and their abusers brought to justice.

The majority of American voters do not want their money entwined with the abortion industry. I support this proposed rule that will finally disentangle Title X money from the abortion industry.


Submit number:  21
submitterName: Ronald Toering
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-56310
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  22
submitterName: Tom Lentz
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-8445
Organization:  N/A
commentText:  Please stop abortions. They not only take a human life but they also take a SOUL that only belongs to God not the Mother.


Submit number:  23
submitterName: Francisco Bonnemaison
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-17294
commentText: The proposed rule is harmful to the health and basic rights of women, and I urge you to withdraw it. This rule would require family-planning providers to conceal legal reproductive options available to women, making it more difficult for millions of Title X patients to get proper preventive care. Moreover, the proposed rule contradicts existing law that ensures patients have a right to full and accurate information about their health care.

This ill-considered rule would also increase the number of patients who receive health care under Title X without providing any additional financing to help the program or providers meet this expanded need. This would place a significant strain on Title X providers.

Most importantly, implementation of this rule will hurt women and their families, denying rights to birth control, cancer screenings, abortion referrals, STD testing and treatment, or even general womens health exams. Major medical associations, like the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ACOG) and the American College of Physicians (ACP), oppose this policy because it moves away from science-based principles and erodes standards of care. Patients have a right to know what their health care options are, and the information they receive should not be influenced by a third partys moral or religious convictions.

As a taxpayer and a healthcare consumer, I strongly oppose to the proposed rule, and I ask you to withdraw it immediately.


Submit number:  24
submitterName: Ron McCollum
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-17321
commentText: The proposed rule is harmful to the health and basic rights of women, and I urge you to withdraw it. This rule would require family-planning providers to conceal legal reproductive options available to women, making it more difficult for millions of Title X patients to get proper preventive care. Moreover, the proposed rule contradicts existing law that ensures patients have a right to full and accurate information about their health care.

This ill-considered rule would also increase the number of patients who receive health care under Title X without providing any additional financing to help the program or providers meet this expanded need. This would place a significant strain on Title X providers.

Most importantly, implementation of this rule will hurt women and their families, denying rights to birth control, cancer screenings, abortion referrals, STD testing and treatment, or even general womens health exams. Major medical associations, like the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ACOG) and the American College of Physicians (ACP), oppose this policy because it moves away from science-based principles and erodes standards of care. Patients have a right to know what their health care options are, and the information they receive should not be influenced by a third partys moral or religious convictions.

As a taxpayer and a healthcare consumer, I strongly oppose to the proposed rule, and I ask you to withdraw it immediately.


Submit number:  25
submitterName: Mark Semans
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-61516
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  26
submitterName: Edward Scott
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-8674
Organization:  Person
commentText: Please eliminate funding for abortion on demand providing organizations.


Submit number:  27
submitterName: Kathy Watson
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-57689
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  28
submitterName: Anonymous Anonymous
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-5657
commentText: I support the new rule for title x funding!


Submit number:  29
submitterName: Beth Lott
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-58825
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  30
submitterName: Kathleen Dunn
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-56292
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  31
submitterName: Lisa Helmreich
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-56338
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  32
submitterName: Anonymous Anonymous
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-34143
commentText: We are in favor of the Protect Life Rule.


Submit number:  33
submitterName: Dennis Francisco
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-56311
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  34
submitterName: Janice Trahan
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-57131
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  35
submitterName: Bonnie Bruck
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-14367
commentText: Most Americans recognize that abortion is not family planning or healthcare and has no place in a taxpayer-funded family planning program.  I strongly support the proposed rule on the Title X program because it will help ensure that abortion-related activities are kept separate from this pre-pregnancy family planning program.  For too long, Title X has been used to subsidize the abortion industry.  We need these regulations in order to draw a bright line between what happens before a pregnancy begins and what happens after a child has been created, as Congress clearly intended.


Submit number:  36
submitterName: DEBORAH DENNO
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-8451
commentText: 1


Submit number:  37
submitterName: Adam Fernandez
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-17295
commentText: The proposed rule is harmful to the health and basic rights of women, and I urge you to withdraw it. This rule would require family-planning providers to conceal legal reproductive options available to women, making it more difficult for millions of Title X patients to get proper preventive care. Moreover, the proposed rule contradicts existing law that ensures patients have a right to full and accurate information about their health care.

This ill-considered rule would also increase the number of patients who receive health care under Title X without providing any additional financing to help the program or providers meet this expanded need. This would place a significant strain on Title X providers.

Most importantly, implementation of this rule will hurt women and their families, denying rights to birth control, cancer screenings, abortion referrals, STD testing and treatment, or even general womens health exams. Major medical associations, like the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ACOG) and the American College of Physicians (ACP), oppose this policy because it moves away from science-based principles and erodes standards of care. Patients have a right to know what their health care options are, and the information they receive should not be influenced by a third partys moral or religious convictions.

As a taxpayer and a healthcare consumer, I strongly oppose to the proposed rule, and I ask you to withdraw it immediately.


Submit number:  38
submitterName: Stacia Hansard
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-61533
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  39
submitterName: robert tokar
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-26136
commentText: Most Americans recognize that abortion is not family planning or healthcare and has no place in a taxpayer-funded family planning program.  I strongly support the proposed rule on the Title X program because it will help ensure that abortion-related activities are kept separate from this pre-pregnancy family planning program.  For too long, Title X has been used to subsidize the abortion industry.  We need these regulations in order to draw a bright line between what happens before a pregnancy begins and what happens after a child has been created, as Congress clearly intended.


Submit number:  40
submitterName: Melissa McKee
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-61518
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  41
submitterName: Robin Paterson
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-54644
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  42
submitterName: Elisa Maginnis
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-8687
Organization:  N/A
commentText: To think that abortions will just go away if you don't talk about them is absolutely ludicrous. And to think that women are not intelligent enough to make decisions for themselves is laughable. US Citizens deserve to be informed about their rights, especially rights that surround their own bodies. 


Submit number:  43
submitterName: Jami Coello
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-37306
commentText: I write in strong support of the proposed Protect Life Rule.

We have been told for years that taxpayer funds don't pay for abortions, yet they help pay for abortion facilities, equipment, and staff salaries. This rule would prevent that. Abortion is not family planning. This rule would draw a bright line between abortion and family planning, as was clearly intended in the law. 

In addition, Live Action's recent report, Aiding Abusers, showed how Planned Parenthood facilities across the country -- including those that receive Title X funds -- have been deliberately failing to report suspected child sexual abuse and rape for decades. This is despite the fact that the Title X program has repeatedly made clear the expectation that recipients follow all state and local law to report such abuses. 

Rather than reporting suspected abuse to authorities, Planned Parenthood has repeatedly looked the other way, performed abortions on victims as young as 12 years old, and then returned those victims to their abusers. Planned Parenthoods repeated failure to report such incidents has allowed abusers to continue abusing their victims, often for years.

This reputation has led to Planned Parenthood becoming a place where sexual abusers and sex traffickers take their victims to cover up their crimes. Why are we funding this with our tax dollars?

Title X funding should be redirected to more worthy and accountable health centers, such as local health departments and nonprofit rural and community health care centers.

I strongly urge adoption of the rule.


Submit number:  44
submitterName: David Wallin
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-57690
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  45
submitterName: Mary Howard
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-14627
commentText: To Whom it May Concern,

Today I write in strong support of the proposed rule titled: Compliance With Statutory Program Integrity Requirements (HHS-OS-2018-0008), also known as the Protect Life Rule.

The proposed rule seeks to reinstate Reagan-era prohibitions on Title X funding for abortion centers. Similar regulations were upheld by the Supreme Court in 1991 in Rust v. Sullivan (500 U.S. 173).

Abortion is not family planning. This rule would draw a bright line between abortion and family planning, as was clearly intended in the statute.

Currently 266 Planned Parenthood abortion centers are also federal Title X locations. Planned Parenthood is the nations largest abortion business and receives $50-$60 million a year from Title X. They should not be entitled to treat Title X as their personal slush fund. Research released by the Charlotte Lozier Institute in 2018 shows Planned Parenthood has inflated the U.S. abortion rate, controlling more than 35% of the abortion industry and resulting in more than three million extra abortions that could have been avoided.

American taxpayers do not want to be complicit in abortions through their taxpayer dollars. According to a January 2018 Marist poll, six in ten Americans oppose taxpayer funding of abortion. Money is fungible and tax dollars should be invested in comprehensive health care alternatives, not used as a slush fund to prop up the abortion industry.

It's important to note that the proposed rule will not reduce family planning funding by a single dollar. This rule would simply direct taxpayer funds to family planning providers who stay out of the abortion business. Women and girls are best served at alternative health care centers including community and rural health care centers that outnumber Planned Parenthood abortion facilities by more than 20 to 1 nationwide.

I strongly urge adoption of the rule.

Sincerely,

Mary Howard
Indiana


Submit number:  46
submitterName: Inna Leonchik
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-9217
commentText: I'm writing to express my support for the "Compliance with Statutory Program Integrity Requirements" (HHS OS-2018-0008) also known as the "Protect Life Rule." 



Abortion is not family planning. Planned Parenthood is the nation's largest provider of abortion, controlling 35% of the industry. 



The Title X program was constructed with the firm intention that abortion and family planning are not the same thing. 



I agree and support the adoption of this rule.


Submit number:  47
submitterName: Mrs D Jensen
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-11886
Organization:  Susan B. Anthony List
commentText: To Whom it May Concern,

Today I write in strong support of the proposed rule titled: "Compliance With Statutory Program Integrity Requirements" (HHS-OS-2018-0008), also known as the "Protect Life Rule."

The proposed rule seeks to reinstate Reagan-era prohibitions on Title X funding for abortion centers. Similar regulations were upheld by the Supreme Court in 1991 in Rust v. Sullivan (500 U.S. 173).

Abortion is not family planning. This rule would draw a bright line between abortion and family planning, as was clearly intended in the statute.

Currently 266 Planned Parenthood abortion centers are also federal Title X locations. Planned Parenthood is the nation's largest abortion business and receives $50-$60 million a year from Title X. They should not be entitled to treat Title X as their personal slush fund. Research released by the Charlotte Lozier Institute in 2018 shows Planned Parenthood has inflated the U.S. abortion rate, controlling more than 35% of the abortion industry and resulting in more than three million "extra" abortions that could have been avoided.

American taxpayers do not want to be complicit in abortions through their taxpayer dollars. According to a January 2018 Marist poll, six in ten Americans oppose taxpayer funding of abortion. Money is fungible and tax dollars should be invested in comprehensive health care alternatives, not used as a slush fund to prop up the abortion industry.

It's important to note that the proposed rule will not reduce family planning funding by a single dollar. This rule would simply direct taxpayer funds to family planning providers who stay out of the abortion business. Women and girls are best served at alternative health care centers including community and rural health care centers that outnumber Planned Parenthood abortion facilities by more than 20 to 1 nationwide.

I strongly urge adoption of the rule.

Sincerely,

Mrs D Jensen
Oregon


Submit number:  48
submitterName: Howaard Linsenbigler
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-47258
commentText: As someone who objects to my tax dollars subsidizing the abortion industry, I express support for the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. This rule is necessary to ensure that taxpayer dollars are no longer entangled in the abortion industry. The President Clinton regulations allowed the Title X family planning program has become a slush fund for abortion organizations. Pro-life organizations have been shut out of the program because they are unwilling to violate their conscience by applying for funds for a program that requires them to referral for abortion. The Clinton regulations must be changed, and I support the regulation removing the abortion referral requirement and replacing it with a restriction on abortion referrals.

Abortion is not family planning. When Congress first authorized the Title X program, and it made clear that abortion should be separate from the family planning program. Title X funds should be completely physically and financially separate from all abortion-related activities, and Title X recipients should no longer be forced to provide abortion referrals or risk defunding.

I also support the proposed rule requirement that Title X clinics abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse in order to put a stop to the exploiting of young women and girls, many of whom are brought to Title X clinics for contraception and abortion by their abusers. The proposed rule would ensure that these girls will be protected and their abusers brought to justice.

The majority of American voters do not want their money entwined with the abortion industry. I support this proposed rule that will finally disentangle Title X money from the abortion industry.


Submit number:  49
submitterName: Jan Hickman
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-57707
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  50
submitterName: Pam Richenberg
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-51387
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  51
submitterName: Joseph Tavares
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-52607
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  52
submitterName: Robert Sherman
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-5658
commentText: I support the proposed rule change especially the following:

"Any Title X project must be organized so that it is physically and financially separate from activities which are prohibited [abortion]. "


There should be absolutely no confusion that abortion clinics are not funded by the federal government. And this rule change will help ensure that.
Thank you


Submit number:  53
submitterName: Ernie Albrecht
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-58826
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
 Let us stop the killing!!!
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  54
submitterName: Linda Ballard
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-59455
commentText: The Democratic party does not speak for women or babies ,nether in truth or good will. I (as a woman and a former baby) do not support my tax dollars funding Planned Parenthood, which is a double negative in the first place. They're main clientele are scared women looking for help at the door of a Satanic butcher shop who only see dollar signs with each woman who walks in and each baby they see on a sonogram.                                                       I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  55
submitterName: Coral Ebel
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-8890
Organization:  1955
commentText: Dear Secretary Azar,

I am writing in strong support of the proposed rule governing Title X funds. I, along with other supporters and activists of Concerned Women for America, stand with you and believe that abortion is not family planning. Thank you for drawing a bright line between abortion and family planning.

I also stand with over 60% of Americans who want OUT of the abortion business. Taxpayer dollars should be invested in comprehensive health care and not used as a slush fund propping up the abortion industry.

This rule will provide necessary transparency for Title X funds and would assure that none of these funds are used for abortion or abortion-related business costs. Thank you for repealing the Clinton Administrations requirement for abortion counseling. This essentially prohibited many qualified providers from participating in the Title X program and was a clear violation of federal laws that provide conscience protections for health care providers.

Taxpayers and patients deserve access to better care than they receive at abortion mills. I urge you to uphold this proposed rule in its entirety.

[If youd like to personalize the comment, this would be a good spot for your addition.]

Sincerely,   Coral Ebel

 


Submit number:  56
submitterName: Maria Rodriguez
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-34638
commentText: I am writing to support this new law to defund abortion providers. We have to protect innocent lives and restore family values in our country. It is important to allocate that money to other health providers that actually assist women.


Submit number:  57
submitterName: Sergio Villa
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-34214
commentText: I write in strong support of the proposed Protect Life Rule.

We have been told for years that taxpayer funds don't pay for abortions, yet they help pay for abortion facilities, equipment, and staff salaries. This rule would prevent that. Abortion is not family planning. This rule would draw a bright line between abortion and family planning, as was clearly intended in the law. 

In addition, Live Action's recent report, Aiding Abusers, showed how Planned Parenthood facilities across the country -- including those that receive Title X funds -- have been deliberately failing to report suspected child sexual abuse and rape for decades. This is despite the fact that the Title X program has repeatedly made clear the expectation that recipients follow all state and local law to report such abuses. 

Rather than reporting suspected abuse to authorities, Planned Parenthood has repeatedly looked the other way, performed abortions on victims as young as 12 years old, and then returned those victims to their abusers. Planned Parenthoods repeated failure to report such incidents has allowed abusers to continue abusing their victims, often for years.

This reputation has led to Planned Parenthood becoming a place where sexual abusers and sex traffickers take their victims to cover up their crimes. Why are we funding this with our tax dollars?

Title X funding should be redirected to more worthy and accountable health centers, such as local health departments and nonprofit rural and community health care centers.

I strongly urge adoption of the rule.


Submit number:  58
submitterName: Michael Connacher
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-56293
commentText: I am strongly in favor of keeping family planning funds separate from abortion. I do not want my tax dollars being used to subsidize abortion through the Title X program.


Submit number:  59
submitterName: Gary Smith
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-56339
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  60
submitterName: Nancy Buerger
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-15493
Organization:  Susan B. Anthony List
commentText: To Whom it May Concern,

Today I write in strong support of the proposed rule titled: Compliance With Statutory Program Integrity Requirements (HHS-OS-2018-0008), also known as the Protect Life Rule.

The proposed rule seeks to reinstate Reagan-era prohibitions on Title X funding for abortion centers. Similar regulations were upheld by the Supreme Court in 1991 in Rust v. Sullivan (500 U.S. 173).

Abortion is not family planning. This rule would draw a bright line between abortion and family planning, as was clearly intended in the statute.

Currently 266 Planned Parenthood abortion centers are also federal Title X locations. Planned Parenthood is the nations largest abortion business and receives $50-$60 million a year from Title X. They should not be entitled to treat Title X as their personal slush fund. Research released by the Charlotte Lozier Institute in 2018 shows Planned Parenthood has inflated the U.S. abortion rate, controlling more than 35% of the abortion industry and resulting in more than three million extira abortions that could have been avoided.

American taxpayers do not want to be complicit in abortions through their taxpayer dollars. According to a January 2018 Marist poll, six in ten Americans oppose taxpayer funding of abortion. Money is fungible and tax dollars should be invested in comprehensive health care alternatives, not used as a slush fund to prop up the abortion industry.

It's important to note that the proposed rule will not reduce family planning funding by a single dollar. This rule would simply direct taxpayer funds to family planning providers who stay out of the abortion business. Women and girls are best served at alternative health care centers including community and rural health care centers that outnumber Planned Parenthood abortion facilities by more than 20 to 1 nationwide.

I strongly urge adoption of the rule.

Sincerely,

Nancy Buerger
Ohio


Submit number:  61
submitterName: Stan Isley
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-34419
commentText: I am writing to demand that you oppose President Trumps gag rule.

The domestic gag rule is a blatant effort to deny healthcare to low-income and underserved Americans. 

No kidding.  Stop being a Nazi soldier.  Fascism is taking over the USA.  You need to see it, and refuse to be a part of it. 

Stan Isley
Yakima, Washington


Submit number:  62
submitterName: Angel Cavazos
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-50433
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  63
submitterName: Lisa Jenkins
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-39963
commentText: As someone who objects to my tax dollars subsidizing the abortion industry, I express support for the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. This rule is necessary to ensure that taxpayer dollars are no longer entangled in the abortion industry. The President Clinton regulations allowed the Title X family planning program has become a slush fund for abortion organizations. Pro-life organizations have been shut out of the program because they are unwilling to violate their conscience by applying for funds for a program that requires them to referral for abortion. The Clinton regulations must be changed, and I support the regulation removing the abortion referral requirement and replacing it with a restriction on abortion referrals.

Abortion is not family planning. When Congress first authorized the Title X program, and it made clear that abortion should be separate from the family planning program. Title X funds should be completely physically and financially separate from all abortion-related activities, and Title X recipients should no longer be forced to provide abortion referrals or risk defunding.

I also support the proposed rule requirement that Title X clinics abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse in order to put a stop to the exploiting of young women and girls, many of whom are brought to Title X clinics for contraception and abortion by their abusers. The proposed rule would ensure that these girls will be protected and their abusers brought to justice.

The majority of American voters do not want their money entwined with the abortion industry. I support this proposed rule that will finally disentangle Title X money from the abortion industry.


Submit number:  64
submitterName: Bridgett Reed
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-61916
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  65
submitterName: Sammuel Brown
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-31292
commentText: I write in strong support of the proposed Protect Life Rule.

We have been told for years that taxpayer funds don't pay for abortions, yet they help pay for abortion facilities, equipment, and staff salaries. This rule would prevent that. Abortion is not family planning. This rule would draw a bright line between abortion and family planning, as was clearly intended in the law. 

In addition, Live Action's recent report, Aiding Abusers, showed how Planned Parenthood facilities across the country -- including those that receive Title X funds -- have been deliberately failing to report suspected child sexual abuse and rape for decades. This is despite the fact that the Title X program has repeatedly made clear the expectation that recipients follow all state and local law to report such abuses. 

Rather than reporting suspected abuse to authorities, Planned Parenthood has repeatedly looked the other way, performed abortions on victims as young as 12 years old, and then returned those victims to their abusers. Planned Parenthoods repeated failure to report such incidents has allowed abusers to continue abusing their victims, often for years.

This reputation has led to Planned Parenthood becoming a place where sexual abusers and sex traffickers take their victims to cover up their crimes. Why are we funding this with our tax dollars?

Title X funding should be redirected to more worthy and accountable health centers, such as local health departments and nonprofit rural and community health care centers.

I strongly urge adoption of the rule.


Submit number:  66
submitterName: Michelle Seager
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-56308
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  67
submitterName: Kathleen Steele
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-19005
Organization:  Susan B. Anthony List
commentText: To Whom it May Concern,

Today I write in strong support of the proposed rule titled: Compliance With Statutory Program Integrity Requirements (HHS-OS-2018-0008), also known as the Protect Life Rule.

The proposed rule seeks to reinstate Reagan-era prohibitions on Title X funding for abortion centers. Similar regulations were upheld by the Supreme Court in 1991 in Rust v. Sullivan (500 U.S. 173).

Abortion is not family planning. This rule would draw a bright line between abortion and family planning, as was clearly intended in the statute.

Currently 266 Planned Parenthood abortion centers are also federal Title X locations. Planned Parenthood is the nations largest abortion business and receives $50-$60 million a year from Title X. They should not be entitled to treat Title X as their personal slush fund. Research released by the Charlotte Lozier Institute in 2018 shows Planned Parenthood has inflated the U.S. abortion rate, controlling more than 35% of the abortion industry and resulting in more than three million extra abortions that could have been avoided.

American taxpayers do not want to be complicit in abortions through their taxpayer dollars. According to a January 2018 Marist poll, six in ten Americans oppose taxpayer funding of abortion. Money is fungible and tax dollars should be invested in comprehensive health care alternatives, not used as a slush fund to prop up the abortion industry.

It's important to note that the proposed rule will not reduce family planning funding by a single dollar. This rule would simply direct taxpayer funds to family planning providers who stay out of the abortion business. Women and girls are best served at alternative health care centers including community and rural health care centers that outnumber Planned Parenthood abortion facilities by more than 20 to 1 nationwide.

I strongly urge adoption of the rule.

Sincerely,

Kathleen Steele
Washington


Submit number:  68
submitterName: Theodore Brondos
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-57132
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  69
submitterName: Diane Mar
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-8739
commentText: Abortion is not healthcare...it is child sacrifice...Taxpayers should not pay for it.  Thank you!   Preserve life


Submit number:  70
submitterName: Jim Mckee
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-8469
commentText: It is time To stop killing babies and it is definitely time for government to stop paying for the killings.  Abortions are not health care.  What is wrong with a society that kills defenseless babies with abandon while demanding an end to the death penalty for vicious killers??!!


Submit number:  71
submitterName: Richard Morgan
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-17296
commentText: The proposed rule is harmful to the health and basic rights of women, and I urge you to withdraw it. This rule would require family-planning providers to conceal legal reproductive options available to women, making it more difficult for millions of Title X patients to get proper preventive care. Moreover, the proposed rule contradicts existing law that ensures patients have a right to full and accurate information about their health care.

This ill-considered rule would also increase the number of patients who receive health care under Title X without providing any additional financing to help the program or providers meet this expanded need. This would place a significant strain on Title X providers.

Most importantly, implementation of this rule will hurt women and their families, denying rights to birth control, cancer screenings, abortion referrals, STD testing and treatment, or even general womens health exams. Major medical associations, like the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ACOG) and the American College of Physicians (ACP), oppose this policy because it moves away from science-based principles and erodes standards of care. Patients have a right to know what their health care options are, and the information they receive should not be influenced by a third partys moral or religious convictions.

As a taxpayer and a healthcare consumer, I strongly oppose to the proposed rule, and I ask you to withdraw it immediately.


Submit number:  72
submitterName: Catherine Grillo
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-61534
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.  I support this regulatory measure and ask you to endorse this rule change.  I do not want my tax dollars supporting the current regulations.


Submit number:  73
submitterName: Julie Novak
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-35598
commentText: I support the new rule for title X funding. There are to many families that want babies!!! Adoption is the answer!


Submit number:  74
submitterName: Sonya Rodolfo-Sioson
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-17327
commentText: The proposed rule is harmful to the health and basic rights of women, and I urge you to withdraw it. This rule would require family-planning providers to conceal legal reproductive options available to women, making it more difficult for millions of Title X patients to get proper preventive care. Moreover, the proposed rule contradicts existing law that ensures patients have a right to full and accurate information about their health care.

This ill-considered rule would also increase the number of patients who receive health care under Title X without providing any additional financing to help the program or providers meet this expanded need. This would place a significant strain on Title X providers.

Most importantly, implementation of this rule will hurt women and their families, denying rights to birth control, cancer screenings, abortion referrals, STD testing and treatment, or even general womens health exams. Major medical associations, like the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ACOG) and the American College of Physicians (ACP), oppose this policy because it moves away from science-based principles and erodes standards of care. Patients have a right to know what their health care options are, and the information they receive should not be influenced by a third partys moral or religious convictions.

As a taxpayer and a healthcare consumer, I strongly oppose to the proposed rule, and I ask you to withdraw it immediately.


Submit number:  75
submitterName: Scott Martin
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-26536
commentText: Most Americans recognize that abortion is not family planning or healthcare and has no place in a taxpayer-funded family planning program.  I strongly support the proposed rule on the Title X program because it will help ensure that abortion-related activities are kept separate from this pre-pregnancy family planning program.  For too long, Title X has been used to subsidize the abortion industry.  We need these regulations in order to draw a bright line between what happens before a pregnancy begins and what happens after a child has been created, as Congress clearly intended.


Submit number:  76
submitterName: william stinson
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-26137
commentText: Most Americans recognize that abortion is a horrific procedure and that is not done as a family planning strategy but to correct a "mistake" when no family planning has actually taken place. There are serious moral concerns regarding abortion,  which involves the dismemberment and death of a child in its mother's womb and subsequently, as recently shown, the illegal sale of body parts. There should be no public funding of programs that refer or counsel regarding abortion


Submit number:  77
submitterName: Charlene Rounds
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-61519
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  78
submitterName: Allan Potts
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-54645
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  79
submitterName: Shannon Lamb
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-12419
Organization:  Susan B. Anthony List
commentText: To Whom it May Concern,

Today I write in strong support of the proposed rule titled: "Compliance With Statutory Program Integrity Requirements" (HHS-OS-2018-0008), also known as the "Protect Life Rule."

The proposed rule seeks to reinstate Reagan-era prohibitions on Title X funding for abortion centers. Similar regulations were upheld by the Supreme Court in 1991 in Rust v. Sullivan (500 U.S. 173).

Abortion is not family planning. This rule would draw a bright line between abortion and family planning, as was clearly intended in the statute.

Currently 266 Planned Parenthood abortion centers are also federal Title X locations. Planned Parenthood is the nation's largest abortion business and receives $50-$60 million a year from Title X. They should not be entitled to treat Title X as their personal slush fund. Research released by the Charlotte Lozier Institute in 2018 shows Planned Parenthood has inflated the U.S. abortion rate, controlling more than 35% of the abortion industry and resulting in more than three million "extra" abortions that could have been avoided.

American taxpayers do not want to be complicit in abortions through their taxpayer dollars. According to a January 2018 Marist poll, six in ten Americans oppose taxpayer funding of abortion. Money is fungible and tax dollars should be invested in comprehensive health care alternatives, not used as a slush fund to prop up the abortion industry.

It's important to note that the proposed rule will not reduce family planning funding by a single dollar. This rule would simply direct taxpayer funds to family planning providers who stay out of the abortion business. Women and girls are best served at alternative health care centers including community and rural health care centers that outnumber Planned Parenthood abortion facilities by more than 20 to 1 nationwide.

I strongly urge adoption of the rule.

Sincerely,

Shannon Lamb
Texas


Submit number:  80
submitterName: Denise Boehnlein
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-8690
commentText: No tax payer funding for abortion!  


Submit number:  81
submitterName: Jennifer Hughes
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-31136
commentText: Life ends with a heart that is not beating, life should also start with a beating heart.

I believe all human life should have a chance at life.  I applaud any action the protects life more.


Submit number:  82
submitterName: Douglas Drake
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-57692
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  83
submitterName: Kristen Newman
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-57172
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  84
submitterName: Julie Garcia
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-10018
commentText:  

I oppose this rule, which would drastically alter the Title X program. Health providers funded by Title X are essential points of care for millions of women, providing birth control, STD testing, cancer screenings, and well-women exams. This rule change would put all that at risk. It would also be a dangerous restriction on the ability of health care providers to give patients the full range of scientific, evidence-based options they need to make the best, most informed decision about their own health. We should trust the medical community, and we should trust women. The government should not infringe on providers' ability to do their jobs. As a member of the public, I oppose this rule. 




Submit number:  85
submitterName: Jeanette Rybinsky
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-24305
commentText: Most Americans recognize that abortion is not family planning or healthcare and has no place in a taxpayer-funded family planning program.  I strongly support the proposed rule on the Title X program because it will help ensure that abortion-related activities are kept separate from this pre-pregnancy family planning program.  For too long, Title X has been used to subsidize the abortion industry.  We need these regulations in order to draw a bright line between what happens before a pregnancy begins and what happens after a child has been created, as Congress clearly intended.


Submit number:  86
submitterName: Marcus Kelley
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-11887
Organization:  Susan B. Anthony List
commentText: To Whom it May Concern,

Today I write in strong support of the proposed rule titled: "Compliance With Statutory Program Integrity Requirements" (HHS-OS-2018-0008), also known as the "Protect Life Rule."

The proposed rule seeks to reinstate Reagan-era prohibitions on Title X funding for abortion centers. Similar regulations were upheld by the Supreme Court in 1991 in Rust v. Sullivan (500 U.S. 173).

Abortion is not family planning. This rule would draw a bright line between abortion and family planning, as was clearly intended in the statute.

Currently 266 Planned Parenthood abortion centers are also federal Title X locations. Planned Parenthood is the nation's largest abortion business and receives $50-$60 million a year from Title X. They should not be entitled to treat Title X as their personal slush fund. Research released by the Charlotte Lozier Institute in 2018 shows Planned Parenthood has inflated the U.S. abortion rate, controlling more than 35% of the abortion industry and resulting in more than three million "extra" abortions that could have been avoided.

American taxpayers do not want to be complicit in abortions through their taxpayer dollars. According to a January 2018 Marist poll, six in ten Americans oppose taxpayer funding of abortion. Money is fungible and tax dollars should be invested in comprehensive health care alternatives, not used as a slush fund to prop up the abortion industry.

It's important to note that the proposed rule will not reduce family planning funding by a single dollar. This rule would simply direct taxpayer funds to family planning providers who stay out of the abortion business. Women and girls are best served at alternative health care centers including community and rural health care centers that outnumber Planned Parenthood abortion facilities by more than 20 to 1 nationwide.

I strongly urge adoption of the rule.

Sincerely,

Marcus Kelley
Michigan


Submit number:  87
submitterName: Debra Shipp
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-57671
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  88
submitterName: Thomas Waites
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-51393
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  89
submitterName: James Seals
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-17210
Organization:  Susan B. Anthony List
commentText: To Whom it May Concern,

Today I write in strong support of the proposed rule titled: Compliance With Statutory Program Integrity Requirements (HHS-OS-2018-0008), also known as the Protect Life Rule.

The proposed rule seeks to reinstate Reagan-era prohibitions on Title X funding for abortion centers. Similar regulations were upheld by the Supreme Court in 1991 in Rust v. Sullivan (500 U.S. 173).

Abortion is not family planning. This rule would draw a bright line between abortion and family planning, as was clearly intended in the statute.

Currently 266 Planned Parenthood abortion centers are also federal Title X locations. Planned Parenthood is the nations largest abortion business and receives $50-$60 million a year from Title X. They should not be entitled to treat Title X as their personal slush fund. Research released by the Charlotte Lozier Institute in 2018 shows Planned Parenthood has inflated the U.S. abortion rate, controlling more than 35% of the abortion industry and resulting in more than three million extra abortions that could have been avoided.

American taxpayers do not want to be complicit in abortions through their taxpayer dollars. According to a January 2018 Marist poll, six in ten Americans oppose taxpayer funding of abortion. Money is fungible and tax dollars should be invested in comprehensive health care alternatives, not used as a slush fund to prop up the abortion industry.

It's important to note that the proposed rule will not reduce family planning funding by a single dollar. This rule would simply direct taxpayer funds to family planning providers who stay out of the abortion business. Women and girls are best served at alternative health care centers including community and rural health care centers that outnumber Planned Parenthood abortion facilities by more than 20 to 1 nationwide.

I strongly urge adoption of the rule.

Sincerely,

James Seals
Idaho


Submit number:  90
submitterName: Andrew Brady
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-2079
commentText: To Whom it May Concern,

Today I write in strong support of the proposed rule titled: Compliance With Statutory Program Integrity Requirements (HHS-OS-2018-0008), also known as the Protect Life Rule.

The proposed rule seeks to reinstate Reagan-era prohibitions on Title X funding for abortion centers. Similar regulations were upheld by the Supreme Court in 1991 in Rust v. Sullivan (500 U.S. 173).

Abortion is not family planning. This rule would draw a bright line between abortion and family planning, as was clearly intended in the statute.

Currently 266 Planned Parenthood abortion centers are also federal Title X locations. Planned Parenthood is the nations largest abortion business and receives $50-$60 million a year from Title X. They should not be entitled to treat Title X as their personal slush fund. Research released by the Charlotte Lozier Institute in 2018 shows Planned Parenthood has inflated the U.S. abortion rate, controlling more than 35% of the abortion industry and resulting in more than three million extra abortions that could have been avoided.

American taxpayers do not want to be complicit in abortions through their taxpayer dollars. According to a January 2018 Marist poll, six in ten Americans oppose taxpayer funding of abortion. Money is fungible and tax dollars should be invested in comprehensive health care alternatives, not used as a slush fund to prop up the abortion industry.

It's important to note that the proposed rule will not reduce family planning funding by a single dollar. This rule would simply direct taxpayer funds to family planning providers who stay out of the abortion business. Women and girls are best served at alternative health care centers including community and rural health care centers that outnumber Planned Parenthood abortion facilities by more than 20 to 1 nationwide.

I strongly urge adoption of the rule.

Sincerely,

Andrew Brady
Texas


Submit number:  91
submitterName: Christine Case
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-54288
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  92
submitterName: Michael White
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-52610
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  93
submitterName: Ana Pusar
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-5660
Organization:  none
commentText: I support the new proposed rule for the Title X funding.
Abortion should not be part of a family planning.
Not couple or single parent should let a child to be murdered 
because they can not afford him/her.


Submit number:  94
submitterName: Laurie Desvarro
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-16253
Organization:  Susan B. Anthony List
commentText: To Whom it May Concern,

Today I write in strong support of the proposed rule titled: Compliance With Statutory Program Integrity Requirements (HHS-OS-2018-0008), also known as the Protect Life Rule.

The proposed rule seeks to reinstate Reagan-era prohibitions on Title X funding for abortion centers. Similar regulations were upheld by the Supreme Court in 1991 in Rust v. Sullivan (500 U.S. 173).

Abortion is not family planning. This rule would draw a bright line between abortion and family planning, as was clearly intended in the statute.

Currently 266 Planned Parenthood abortion centers are also federal Title X locations. Planned Parenthood is the nations largest abortion business and receives $50-$60 million a year from Title X. They should not be entitled to treat Title X as their personal slush fund. Research released by the Charlotte Lozier Institute in 2018 shows Planned Parenthood has inflated the U.S. abortion rate, controlling more than 35% of the abortion industry and resulting in more than three million extra abortions that could have been avoided.

American taxpayers do not want to be complicit in abortions through their taxpayer dollars. According to a January 2018 Marist poll, six in ten Americans oppose taxpayer funding of abortion. Money is fungible and tax dollars should be invested in comprehensive health care alternatives, not used as a slush fund to prop up the abortion industry.

It's important to note that the proposed rule will not reduce family planning funding by a single dollar. This rule would simply direct taxpayer funds to family planning providers who stay out of the abortion business. Women and girls are best served at alternative health care centers including community and rural health care centers that outnumber Planned Parenthood abortion facilities by more than 20 to 1 nationwide.

I strongly urge adoption of the rule.

Sincerely,

Laurie Desvarro
California


Submit number:  95
submitterName: Youngjin Park
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-58827
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  96
submitterName: Les Greaser
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-58439
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  97
submitterName: Brian Riley
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-59453
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.


Submit number:  98
submitterName: Erwin Friesen
documentId: HHS-OS-2018-0008-48034
commentText: I support the proposed rule issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on June 1, 2018 to separate abortion practices from the Title X family planning program. 
 
Congress made it clear when creating Title X that abortion should be separate from the family planning program, and abortion is not family planning. Title X funds should be completely separate from all abortion-related activities, and those who receive Title X funding should not be forced to provide abortion referrals as a condition of receiving these funds.
 
I also support the proposed rule to Title X that would protect girls and young women from being exploited by their abusers who may take them to a clinic for an abortion. The proposed changes to Title X will help stop this exploitation by requiring clinics to abide by state reporting laws for rape and abuse.
 
Thank you for this proposed rule change to Title X. These changes will honor the desires of a majority of Americans who do not want their money going to the abortion industry.

I am appalled that my hard earned money is used to kill babies!  It is unthinkable this is happening in this great nation.  I absolutely support this


